28 jun
Cornerstone - an important quality or feature on which a particular thing depends 
A joint statement by United States President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday after their first meeting 
made terrorism the cornerstone of mutual cooperation between the two countries. 

culpable - deserving blame
synonyms:	to blame, guilty

Permissive - allowing or characterized by great or excessive freedom of behaviour.
"a permissive parent"
synonyms:	liberal, broad-minded, open-minded, non-restrictive, free, free and easy, easy-going, live-and-let-live, 
latitudinarian, laissez-faire, libertarian
Pak is culpable for allowing a permissive environment for militants.

elate - make (someone) ecstatically happy
"I felt elated at beating Dennis"
synonyms:	thrilled, exhilarated, happy, delighted, overjoyed, joyous
Rise in crocodile nestings in Odisha elates ecologists 

remnant
ˈrɛmnənt/
plural noun: remnants
    a part or quantity that is left after the greater part has been used, removed, or destroyed.
    "the bogs are an endangered remnant of a primeval landscape"
    synonyms:	remains, remainder, leftovers


3 Jul
-------
Stagnant --	still, motionless, immobile, inert, lifeless
showing no activity; dull and sluggish.
Dont be stagnant.. be a revenant...!!

Provocation (Provoke) -- to excite someone, make someone angry
1. action or speech that makes someone angry, especially deliberately.
2. the action of arousing sexual desire or interest, especially deliberately.
Girls always provoke boys by their .... o o

trespassed - enter someone's land or property without permission. 



5 Jul
-------------------
clairvoyant- a person who claims to have a supernatural ability to perceive events in the future or beyond normal sensory 
contact.

11 Jul
-------------------
Sloppy - careless and unsystematic
sleepy log sloppy hote hain!

tantamount- equivalent to, equivalent in seriousness to; virtually the same as.
    "not taking action would be tantamount to dereliction of duty"
                                equivalent to
this amount is equivalent to tantamount.

prima facie -  based on the first impression; accepted as correct until proved otherwise.
    "a prima facie case of professional misconduct"
Ex:
“Failure on the part of all respondents [Nawaz Sharif and children] to produce the requisite information confirming 
‘known sources of income’ is prima facie tantamount to not being able to justify assets and means of income,” said the report.

damning
ˈdamɪŋ/
    (of a circumstance or piece of evidence) strongly suggesting guilt or error.
    "I was innocent but the evidence was damning"
    synonyms:	incriminating, condemnatory, condemning, damnatory; More
    
         extremely critical.
        "a damning indictment of the government's record"
        
        The damning report also claimed that a significantdisparity existed between the known and declared sources of income 
        and the wealth accumulated by the Sharifs.
        
contempt - disregard for something that should be considered.
the offence of being disobedient to or disrespectful of a court of law and its officers.
he court has also slapped a contempt notice on a reporter of English daily for contacting a judge on his report and misreporting
the facts on JIT probe.

prelude
noun: prelude; plural noun: preludes
    an action or event serving as an introduction to something more important.
    
liberalization
    the removal or loosening of restrictions on something, typically an economic or political system.
    "the government's policy of economic liberalization"
    
liberal
    willing to respect or accept behaviour or opinions different from one's own; open to new ideas.
    "liberal views towards divorce"
    
Mademoiselle -- Miss/Madam (French)
Monsieur  -- Mr./Sir  (French)
“That day, in the midst of darkness and the pouring rain, I felt a familiar force which tugged at my heartstrings, again. 
I was afraid to give in, again. But the force won and I gave in, again. The force was love and this time, it was right!”


13 Jul
-------------
Regime - came from Regiment --- Gorkha Regument means Gorkha Government (Unit of army)
1. a government, especially an authoritarian one.
"the military regime controls very carefully what is written"
2. a system or ordered way of doing things.
"detention centres with a very tough physical regime"


Waives: refrain from insisting on or using (a right or claim).
SBI waives charge on IMPS fund transfer upto 1000

Impasse -  deadlock
While buying anything from shop no one is willing to offer concession to end the impasse

undulate -
verb
gerund or present participle: undulating
    move with a smooth wave-like motion.
    "her body undulated to the thumping rhythm of the music"
    synonyms:	rise and fall,


inevitable - 
    1. certain to happen; unavoidable.
    "war was inevitable"
    
Jul 14
----------
Succumbed - past of succumb
    die from the effect of a disease or injury.
    "after a few blows there, the porcupine succumbs"
    synonyms:	die from, die of,
Liu Xiaobo, Chinese dissident who won Nobel prize, dies. 
He succumbed to cancer in a hospital while remaining under police custody.

fail to resist pressure, temptation, or some other negative force.
synonyms:	yield, give in, give way, submit, surrender, capitulate, cave in; More
be overcome by, be overwhelmed by, be conquered by, be beaten by
"she succumbed to temptation"
antonyms:	resist, conquer

distinguished
adjective: distinguished
    very successful, authoritative, and commanding great respect.
    "a distinguished American educationist"
    synonyms:	eminent, famous, famed, renowned, prominent, well known; More
    esteemed, respected, illustrious, august, venerable, honoured, acclaimed, celebrated, legendary, great
    "a distinguished physicist"
    antonyms:	unknown, obscure
        dignified and noble in appearance or manner.
        "that hairstyle makes you look quite distinguished"
Distinguish - recognize or treat (someone or something) as different. 

ailing
adjective: ailing
    in poor health.
    "I went to see my ailing mother"
    synonyms:	ill, unwell, not well, sick, sickly, poorly, weak, indisposed, in poor/bad health, infirm, debilitated, 
    delicate, off colour;
  
Aftermath - the consequences or after-effects of a significant unpleasant event. 
he was Senior Adviser dealing with the aftermath of Ayodhyaaftermath
noun: aftermath; plural noun: aftermaths

19 Jul
---------------
Attorny --  Lawyer, as a general synonym. Attorney at law, an official title of lawyers in some jurisdictions. 
Attorney-in-fact, a holder of a power of attorney who is (though not necessarily a lawyer) able to act on another's behalf 
in legal and financial contexts.
The Attorney General for India is the Indian government's chief legal advisor, and its primary lawyer in the Supreme Court of 
India. He is appointed by the President of India under Article 76(1) of the Constitution for a tenure of 3 years.

Discord - disagreement between people
He was having an affair, which led to discord in the family.

Abetment - the reduction or removal of a nuisance.
He arrested on charges of abetment to suicide.

Cold-blooded - without emotion or pity; deliberately cruel or callous.
"a cold-blooded murder"

Warm Blooded - passionate
 red-blooded, hot-blooded
 I'm a warm blood samurai..
 
 20 Jul
 ----------------------
 Insurgency -- an active revolt or uprising
 Insurgent - a person fighting against a government or invading force; a rebel or revolutionary.
"an attack by armed insurgents"
synonyms:	rebel, revolutionary, revolutionist, mutineer, agitator, subversive, guerrilla, anarchist

Extremism - the holding of extreme political or religious views; fanaticism.

humanitarian - concerned with or seeking to promote human welfare.

 ‘Transforming India: Eradicating Poverty, Promoting Prosperity.’
 Eradicating - destroy completely
 
amenity
plural noun: amenities

    a desirable or useful feature or facility of a building or place.
    "the property is situated in a convenient location, close to all local amenities"
    synonyms:	facility, service, convenience, resource, utility, system, appliance, aid, advantage, comfort, benefit, 
    arrangement, opportunity; More
    equipment, provision, solutions, assistance
    "the older type of housing lacks basic amenities"
        the pleasantness or attractiveness of a place.
        "developments which would clash with amenity"
        synonyms:	pleasantness, agreeableness, pleasurableness, enjoyableness, niceness
        "gravel working means lorries, dust, noise, and a general loss of amenity"
 
bestow - confer or present (an honour, right, or gift)
verb: bestow; 3rd person present: bestows; past tense: bestowed; past participle: bestowed; 
gerund or present participle: bestowing
Mr Ansari said at an event to bestow Tata Sons chairman.
For many Indian firms, competition per se is a new phenomenon,” Mr. Ansari said, exemplifying his point by stressing that apart 
from a few examples,
 
Complacent - showing uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements
Hamid Ansari criticises Indian industry leaders for turning ‘complacent’.
 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (Neta nahi hu..israili hu)

Accord - give or grant someone (power, status, or recognition).
Modi’s visit was accorded in Israel

Inscription - a thing inscribed, as on a monument or in a book.
"the inscription on her headstone"
synonyms:	engraving, wording


Zenith - the time at which something is most powerful or successful.
"in 1977, punk was at its zenith"
synonyms:	highest point, high point, crowning point, height, top, acme, peak, pinnacle, apex, apogee, vertex
during the zenith of the Chola powerduring the zenith of the Chola power, irrigation in the Cauvery delta was through the many 
tributaries of the river and smaller canals.

Tributaries - a river or stream flowing into a larger river or lake.

Food Wastage:::::::::::::::
The wastage of food entails loss of considerable amount of resources in the form of inputs used during production. For example,
25% of fresh water and nearly 300 million barrels of oil used to produce food are ultimately wasted.
The increasing wastage also results in land degradation by about 45%, mainly due to deforestation, unsustainable agricultural 
practices, and excessive groundwater extraction. Wastage results in national economic loss. To put a monetary value to the loss 
in terms of wastage, India loses ₹58,000 crore every year, to quote The CSR Journal.

The energy spent over wasted food results in 3.3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide production every year. Decay also leads to 
harmful emission of other gases in the atmosphere; for instance, decaying of rice produces methane. Food waste emissions have a 
major impact on climate change and result in greater carbon footprint.
Prime Minister’s call to the nation needs to be followed up with further interventions.

An array of discussions has taken place over police reforms but the political class seems to be against it on account of vested
interests.

Hamlet - Kasba

July 21
-------------
Dictatorship -  government by dictator
Dictator -  A ruler by force
Condone - accept (behaviour that is considered morally wrong or offensive).
We should not condone their behaviour.
Liberal - willing to respect or accept behaviour or opinions different from one's own; open to new ideas.
"liberal views towards divorce"

denounce - icly declare to be wrong or evil.
    "the Assembly denounced the use of violence"
    synonyms:	condemn, criticize, attack, censure, castigate, decry, revile, vilify, besmirch
    
 
